@scene_id: scene.book003.012_nephilim_summoning.scene001
@chapter_id: chapter.book003.012_nephilim_summoning
@scene_index: 1
@boundary_method: authored_scene_marker
@authority_state: SCENE_BOUNDARY_AUTHORED
@authored_scene_boundaries_proven: true
@boundary_start_line: 6
@boundary_end_line: 74
@scene_meta_location: Ruins of Central Valley
@scene_meta_time: year 10,550, month 1, day 3
@scene_meta_participants: Torhh, Korrhan, Saresh, Pazuzu, Giant tribal representatives
@scene_meta_focus: Tribal leaders gather in the ruined central valley to report overwhelming Anunnaki pressure across all fronts; Pazuzu confesses his lingering Anunnaki programming; Torhh invokes the Garden's planetary memory and proposes reaching the Aeon Keepers through the planetary consciousness matrix via Torrhen; the council agrees to seek ancient defense protocols.
@scene_meta_continuity: 1 year, 8 months, 36 days after the alliance with the Brajor in scene 011.3
@scene_meta_presentation: playable-cutscene
@scene_meta_cutscene_purpose: The inter-tribal council in the central valley ruins, Pazuzu's confession of Anunnaki programming, Torhh's appeal to the Garden's planetary memory, and the decision to commune with the Aeon Keepers through Torrhen.
@contract: engain.scene_text_packet.v1
---
scene 012.1 — the convergence of desperation

scene meta:
location: Ruins of Central Valley
time: year 10,550, month 1, day 3
participants: Torhh, Korrhan, Saresh, Pazuzu, Giant tribal representatives
focus: Tribal leaders gather in the ruined central valley to report overwhelming Anunnaki pressure across all fronts; Pazuzu confesses his lingering Anunnaki programming; Torhh invokes the Garden's planetary memory and proposes reaching the Aeon Keepers through the planetary consciousness matrix via Torrhen; the council agrees to seek ancient defense protocols.
continuity: 1 year, 8 months, 36 days after the alliance with the Brajor in scene 011.3
presentation: playable-cutscene
cutscene purpose: The inter-tribal council in the central valley ruins, Pazuzu's confession of Anunnaki programming, Torhh's appeal to the Garden's planetary memory, and the decision to commune with the Aeon Keepers through Torrhen.

The tribal leaders gathered at the one location all factions could still access: the ruins of what had once been the Garden's central valley, now scarred by millennia of occupation but still carrying faint resonance of the cooperation that had built paradise.

Torhh represented the Tidecallers—ancient beyond most, memory stretching back to the First Coming and even fragments of the Garden itself. Beside the jade-green Giant stood Korrhan of the Ash Giants, its burnt-red stone-flesh cracked and barely holding cohesion after months of Gruulith assault. Saresh limped forward for the desert tribes, its body fragmenting from sustained Dregan sonic attacks. Representatives from Forest, Mountain, Highland, and Subterranean populations completed the circle, each bearing wounds that spoke of coordinated Anunnaki pressure across all territories.

And among them, Pazuzu—elder of the Igigi, having survived three and a half millennia of slavery, his elongated form diminished by age but consciousness sharper than ever.

"We are losing," Korrhan stated without preamble, its voice carrying geological certainty. "The Ash Giant population is reduced by forty-seven percent. The Gruulith are relentless, tireless, and they blend with our own mountains so perfectly that defense becomes impossible. We cannot sustain another season of this assault."

"The desert is worse," Saresh added, its harmonics fractured by the same damage that destroyed stone-flesh. "The Dregans don't just kill—they transform our bodies into glass, our environments into reflective prisons where their screams echo forever. We've retreated to the deepest chambers and still they follow. Seventy-three percent casualties. The survivors... we're fragments of what we were."

The Forest Giants reported similar devastation. The Highland tribes had lost contact with three settlements entirely. Even the Subterranean populations, protected by depth and darkness, were detecting Anunnaki probes seeking their hidden strongholds.

Only the Tidecallers had found unexpected advantage—the Brajor's defection providing aquatic allies rather than additional enemies. But that single bright point in a field of disasters made the other tribes suspicious rather than hopeful.

"You ally with Anunnaki creatures while we die," a Mountain Giant rumbled, its charcoal-grey form bearing wounds that spoke of recent combat. "The ocean-dwellers always claimed they wanted cooperation, yet when we need aid, you're negotiating with the enemy."

"The Brajor chose alliance," Torhh replied, its ancient patience strained but holding. "They were sent to destroy us and refused. That refusal cost them—the golden ones deployed additional forces when the ocean attacks failed. We didn't negotiate with enemies. We offered shelter to beings who rejected programming to become enemies."

"Convenient distinction," Korrhan muttered, and the assembled Giants felt three thousand years of planted suspicions rising despite desperate circumstances.

Pazuzu's bioluminescence flared—sharp patterns that cut through the rising tensions. "This is exactly what she wants. The Queen calculated this moment when she programmed me during the First Coming. She knew that pressure would make cooperation harder, not easier. That desperation would trigger the lies she planted rather than the unity survival requires."

The Igigi elder stepped into the center of the circle, his mathematical consciousness processing probabilities across millennia of observation. "I carry weapons I don't remember receiving. Thoughts that feel like mine but taste like implanted poison. For three thousand years, I've been whispering doubts between your tribes—sometimes consciously resisting, sometimes unable to recognize the programming until words were already spoken. Every suspicion you feel toward each other? I helped plant it. We Igigi did. Because she made us."

The confession settled across the gathering like geological weight.

"Then we're doomed," a Forest Giant said, its voice carrying resignation. "If the fractures are that deep, that calculated, that persistent—"

"We're doomed if we accept them," Torhh interrupted. "But we have something the Queen's mathematics didn't account for. We have memory of what came before the lies. The Garden wasn't just my experience—it's encoded in this valley's consciousness, in the stone beneath our feet, in the water that flows through ancient channels. The Nephoretti taught us techniques that persist beyond individual lifetimes."

The ancient Giant's ocean-deep eyes swept across the assembled tribes. "We need to remember. Not just intellectually, but fundamentally. Touch the planetary consciousness that witnessed our unity. Access the knowledge that predates the Sundering. And ask—not the golden ones, but the forces that opposed them—for the weapons we need to survive."

"The Aeon Keepers," Pazuzu realized, his mathematical mind connecting threads across cosmological scales. "The beings who created the Nephoretti, who opposed Anunnaki conquest from the beginning. If we could reach them in the Ethereal Realm—"

"We can't cross the Veil without their permission," a Subterranean Giant countered. "That barrier is absolute. Physical beings attempting Ethereal transit without proper channels just... dissolve. Become probability without form."

"But the planet can touch both sides," Torhh continued, its ancient awareness remembering lessons from the Garden era. "The Nephoretti taught us that consciousness embedded in geological structures exists partially in multiple realms. Torrhen, the first teacher, sacrificed himself to become part of the planetary matrix. If we commune deeply enough, we might reach through him to the Keepers themselves."

"And ask for what?" Korrhan demanded. "Rescue? Salvation? The golden ones command weapons we can't match. Their creatures are purpose-built to destroy us. What could the Aeon Keepers possibly provide that changes these mathematics?"

"The old defenses," Pazuzu said quietly, his consciousness processing data from three millennia of maintaining Needle structures. "I've seen fragments in the systems. References to 'Nephilim protocols' embedded in Aeon Keeper architecture that predates Anunnaki conquest. Guardians made of pure vrill-energy, constructed to defend the physical realm when the Keepers couldn't intervene directly."

The word rippled through the assembly—Nephilim. Most had never heard it. But something in the planetary consciousness recognized it, resonated with it, remembered when such defenders had walked the world in ages before memory.

"We attempt communion," Torhh decided, its voice carrying authority that geological patience granted. "All tribes, all factions, unified in one desperate request. We touch the planetary consciousness together, speak through Torrhen's embedded teachings to the Aeon Keepers beyond the Veil, and we ask for the weapon they created to defend against exactly this threat."

"And if the cost is too high?" Saresh asked, its fragmenting stone-flesh making every word painful. "The Aeon Keepers won't grant power without price. That's cosmic law—equivalent exchange, balance maintained. What will they demand in return for weapons that can fight Anunnaki forces?"

"Whatever they demand," Korrhan replied, surprising itself with the certainty. "Because the alternative is extinction. And I would rather die attempting impossible communion than accepting inevitable annihilation."

The assembled Giants rumbled agreement—not unanimous, not without fear, but sufficient. They would try. They would reach through planetary consciousness toward forces that had opposed the Anunnaki since before this world knew war.

And they would discover whether the Aeon Keepers' old defenses could be summoned by beings desperate enough to pay any price for survival.

---

Year 10,550, Month 1, Day 4
