@scene_id: scene.book008.047_mika.scene001
@chapter_id: chapter.book008.047_mika
@scene_index: 1
@boundary_method: mechanical_word_chunk
@authority_state: SCENE_BOUNDARY_MECHANICAL
@authored_scene_boundaries_proven: false
@boundary_start_line: 1
@boundary_end_line: 55
@contract: engain.scene_text_packet.v1
---
book 8
chapter 047-mika

~~~THE HOMECOMING~~~~
ACT 1: RETURN THROUGH SCORCH

The desert remembered them. The Scorch breathed its dry, ancient breath over the column of four hundred and sixty souls as they marched eastward. They were a patchwork army—two hundred and ten Legion veterans moving with the stiff, automatic gait of soldiers who had marched to hell and back, and two hundred and fifty freed slaves, their steps uneven but fierce with new purpose. The heat shimmered above the salt flats, distorting the memories of blood and battle into wavering ghosts.

Geralt walked at the head, his Stage 1 wings folded tight against his back. They caught the sun, casting a jagged, dragon-shaped shadow that stretched ahead of him like a guide. Mika walked at his side, her eyes perpetually scanning the horizon, a habit war had etched into her bones. They spoke little. The silence between them was not empty; it was full of the unspoken understanding that the mission was over, and the weight of what came next was settling upon them.

Weeks bled into one another, marked by the twin suns rising and setting over the endless ochre wastes. They followed the Star Needle's faint resonance in Geralt's bones, a homing pulse pulling them toward the crash site, toward the place this had all begun.

Then, one morning, they saw it.

A smudge on the horizon resolved into walls. Real, constructed walls of fitted stone, rising from the mountain's scar. Smoke curled from chimneys. The skeletal wreckage of the Anunnaki ship was still visible, but now it was integrated—girders repurposed as support beams, hull plating forming roofs. Life had taken root in the wound.

"Ironspire," Mika murmured, the name carried on the dry wind.

They approached slowly, a massive column emerging from the desert. Sentries on the walls spotted them, and a cry went up—not of alarm, but of recognition. The gates swung open.

Celly Sundrift met them just inside, her hands covered in brick-dust, her face older and wiser than when they'd last seen her at the collapsing Hub Needle. "Commander. Geralt." Her eyes took in the wings, the army of freed souls behind them, and a slow smile spread across her face. "You did it. You actually did it."

"We did," Geralt said, his voice gravelly with dust. "We're home."

Celly ushered them in, calling for water and food to be brought for the weary travelers. The town was a marvel of pragmatic beauty. Stone houses with metal-reinforced doors. A central well with a clever pulley system. Workshops humming with activity. Fields of hardy, genetically-modified crops growing in terraced plots against the mountain. It was alive.

"Where are the founders?" Mika asked, looking around. "Roric and Kael?"

Celly's smile turned wry. "Sleeping."

She led them to a sturdy longhouse near the center of town. Inside, in a room filled with maps and building plans, two men were sprawled on cots. Roric and Kael. Deep in sleep, mouths slightly open, utterly dead to the world.

Celly walked over. "Roric? Company." Nothing. She shook his shoulder. "Roric. Wake up." A snore. Finally, she kicked the leg of the cot. "RORIC! THE ARMY'S HERE!"

Roric snorted, rolled over, and continued sleeping. Kael didn't even twitch.

Celly shrugged, turning back to Geralt and Mika. "They do this. Work themselves into the ground for days, then crash for twelve hours straight. Sleep like the dead." She paused, a flicker of memory crossing her face. "Some things never change, huh?"

Mika felt a strange, warm weight in her chest. She remembered Zephyr's report, years ago now: They slept through a spaceship crash. Here, in safety, they still slept through an army's homecoming.

Celly gave them a tour as the Legion and freed slaves integrated, some finding family among Ironspire's population, others simply collapsing in grateful exhaustion. The settlement was more than just survival; it was a community. A school was being planned. A infirmary already running.

"More survivors keep arriving," Celly said, pointing to a group of newcomers being shown to temporary shelters. "Found them in the deep desert, in old wreckage. They just... find their way here."

She led them to the western edge of town, where the mountain scar deepened. A team was there, carefully excavating something massive and metallic from the rock. "We found this a few months back. Been buried for... we don't know. Millennia? It's big. Feels important. Gives off a low hum."

Geralt felt it immediately through his connection to Luminaire's Echo—a dormant network node, a piece of the ancient Void Spire infrastructure, sleeping beneath the earth. He exchanged a look with Mika. Another anchor point.

They stayed for three days. Some of the freed slaves chose to remain in Ironspire, their fight done, craving simple walls and steady work. Some Legion veterans, too weary for another march, integrated into the town's guard. The core group that gathered to move on was smaller, tighter: Geralt, Mika, Oreck, and about fifty of the most loyal, restless veterans.

They left at dawn, passing through Ironspire's gates and making the short trek to the nearby Star Needle Spire. It stood where Geralt had first returned from the Nexus, humming softly. From there, they picked up an old, faint trail leading north and east, into the rocky foothills.

The path was familiar in Geralt's bones. He had walked it alone, bleeding and desperate, years ago.

ACT 2: THE FALCON RIDGE FOUNDING
