@scene_id: scene.book008.047_mika.scene002
@chapter_id: chapter.book008.047_mika
@scene_index: 2
@boundary_method: mechanical_word_chunk
@authority_state: SCENE_BOUNDARY_MECHANICAL
@authored_scene_boundaries_proven: false
@boundary_start_line: 56
@boundary_end_line: 131
@contract: engain.scene_text_packet.v1
---
They reached the plateau by midday. The air was thinner here, cooler. The place was unremarkable—just a flat stretch of wind-scoured stone between two ridges—but both Geralt and Mika stopped as if struck.

Mika walked to a particular depression in the rock, her boots scuffing the stone. "I fell here," she said, her voice quiet. "I was following your blood. I thought it was leading me to you. I collapsed right here."

Geralt moved a few meters to the east, to a patch of darker stone. "I fell here first. Before you ever came looking. The Nexus spat me out. I crawled this far before I passed out."

They stood in silence, the space between them suddenly charged with the ghost of those terrible, lonely hours. They had been meters apart, each unconscious, each believing the other was lost forever. The distance felt vast and insignificant all at once.

Then, a cry from above.

Three falcons circled against the hard blue sky. They were the same ones—Mika knew it in her gut. They wheeled once, twice, then dove sharply beyond the northern rise.

Mika and Geralt looked at each other.

"Again?" she asked.

"Again," he said.

They followed, their small company trailing behind. They crested the rise—

—and the valley opened below them.

It was hidden, perfectly sheltered by the surrounding ridges. A clear stream cut through its center, fed by a waterfall that cascaded from the eastern cliff. Ancient, gnarled trees dotted the slopes, and the floor was rich, dark soil. It was a bowl of life carved into the stone desert.

"The place we missed by fifty meters," Mika whispered.

Geralt pointed. High on the cliff face, beneath the falcons' now-visible nest, a scrap of fabric fluttered. Mika scrambled up the loose scree, her heart pounding. She pulled it free.

It was the scarf. Her scarf. The one she'd lost years ago on this very plateau, the one with the ambiguous, blood-stained pattern that could be a falcon or a dragon. It was sun-faded, but the stain was still there. His blood. Her history.

"How is this here?" she breathed.

No answer came. The wind sighed through the valley. Some rhymes in reality had no reason, only resonance.

Geralt climbed up to join her. He took the scarf from her trembling hands. He found a straight, strong branch from a fallen tree. With careful, deliberate movements, he tied the scarf to one end. He carried it down into the heart of the valley, to where the stream entered from the north. He drove the branch deep into the earth.

The makeshift banner caught the breeze, the faded fabric snapping once, then settling.

"Welcome to Falcon Ridge," Geralt said.

And they began to build.

ACT 3: EARLY DAYS

Month 1 was raw survival. They cleared a flat space near the stream with axes and sheer will. The first structure was a simple hut of stone and timber—Geralt and Mika's. The second was a long barracks for the soldiers. It was basic, drafty, and home.

Month 2 brought order. Merra Sundrift arrived from Ironspire with a caravan of seeds, tools, and stubborn hope. She walked the south-facing slope with Mika, pointing where the sun would linger. They planted the first fields. Geralt and the veterans channeled the stream, creating irrigation ditches with precise, military efficiency. A storage cache was dug into a cool hillside.

Month 3 saw the valley become a settlement. More veterans arrived from Ironspire, their war ended, seeking the quiet company of their commanders. Oreck took charge of construction, his methodical, powerful presence perfect for lifting stone beams and plotting defensive lines. A low perimeter wall began to snake around the valley's most accessible approaches.

The valley's strategic perfection was undeniable. It overlooked the only easy approach. The Star Needle Spire was a clear silhouette on the western horizon, a constant and comforting landmark. They had a two-mile sightline—any approaching threat would be seen with hours of warning.

One morning, as Mika inspected the growing wall, she turned and found Zephyr standing beside her, as if he'd been there for hours. He was studying the masonry.

"Perimeter's good," the ancient Sage said, not looking at her. "Won't stop me, though."

Then he was gone, leaving only the scent of ozone and timelessness.

ACT 4: THE FIRST TONGUE

A year had gentled Falcon Ridge. The fields were green. The huts had become houses. The archive was Mika's pride—a solid stone building with a vaulted ceiling, filled with empty shelves waiting for knowledge.

One evening, Geralt, Mika, and Zephyr sat by the central fire. The conversation drifted, as it often did with Zephyr, toward the deep past.

"The First Tongue isn't spoken," Zephyr said, poking the embers with a stick. "It's remembered. The stones know it. The water knows it. You've heard it whispering here, in the valley's dreams."

Mika leaned forward. "The language of creation?"

"One of them. The one this world was sung in." He looked at her, his ancient eyes reflecting the fire. "Would you like to hear a word?"

She nodded.

"Sek'han," Zephyr said. The sound was not just a word. It was a vibration, a slight pressure change in the air, a feeling of potential lifting. "It means 'rise.' Or 'lift.' Or 'ascend.' Depends on the intention behind it."

Mika looked at a fist-sized stone near her foot. She focused, not on moving it with force, but on introducing the concept of sek'han to it. She didn't speak aloud. She let the meaning form in her mind, in her will.
